Trident just became way rarer on Bedrock
Edition. Let me explain. Trident are a
pretty difficult item to obtain on Java
because only about 6% of drowns spawn
with the trident. And when you kill one
with looting three, only 11.5%
actually drop the trident. Meaning on
average, you'll have to kill 144 drowns
before you'll actually get a trident
drown to drop its trident. But this
wasn't that big of a deal because
trident aren't that useful on Java. But
on Bedrock, they are since tons of mob
farms use trident killers to kill mobs
with looting infinitely. And they're
really strong since impaling does extra
damage to anything that's wet. Luckily,
since trident are so useful, bedrock
drowns spawned with trident almost three
times as often as on Java. And bedrock
drowns dropped the trident over twice as
frequently, making trident pretty easy
to get. But even though it's worse for
bedrock players, Mojang just made a
parody change in the newest version. So
drowns now spawn with trident as rarely
as on Java.